Teacher, what are we going to do? What are we going to do in the kingdom? What do you learn? What
are you going to practice this time?
The first is, where we are going to practice, as I said, these four renormal sessions.
Four renormal sessions, that means joy and appreciation. Love and kindness are comparable.
Respect, bring up that four renormalization and attitude, realizations.
And the teaching said, said, in a short window, what is called? Unbelievable, productive, lama, you
, norms.
The strong devotion to the Muripam Mahasambhava was embodied in all the Buddhas of the three times,
and all the masters, lineage, together with the lineage of the monsters, everyone, everyone.
A really strong person for that. Strongly, and with sincerely devotion, joy and appreciation,
connecting our heart and mind.
May I become as a you all to benefit all certain beings.
With that sincerity, devotion, thought, and as I said many times, you already know that.
So, with that, then the joy and appreciation of our lives, and that is,
the precious human body is difficult to obtain, that which now we want it.
We have had eating that in humans, how lucky, how beautiful, happy in the joy, and appreciating
that.
This appreciating the joy is not extra package, we are going to detour, detour from the practice.
That is practice. Practice, we are going to make the practice, we are not going to practice
suffering, sadness,
difficulty, blame, criticizing, this and that. That is not practice.
Or at least there, but that for our, or how our, whatever we practice, that is not our practice.
Our practice is Jewish. We are going to touch with our inner core of the nature, of the new sins,
call it that.
We are going to touch with the Dharma, Sambukai, and we are going to touch with the Nirmaka Apollo
of a new sin.
And there, the joy and appreciation breaks your life, and the favorable conviction is difficult to
obtain, and unlucky, that I have that.
I got that. I got that. It's not just that God was hurt on me, and accidentally, by causing
conviction, all this, thankful to everyone,
to everyone who bought this life, dying and going to be afraid of things.
Then the second is the Reflei-Knoat, the impermanent. Everyone who is born to die, suffering is
going to die, that's true.
But that's the way, but we are not dying. I'm not dead now. I'm alive. I'm healthy, quite healthy.
I'm alive, I'm healthy, I'm jumping. I'm quite good. How lucky, how beautiful.
Beautiful. But he's born in it. It's true, everyone. Look back. How many things have changed?
Look now, and feel good. How many things have happened? And this is the same thing in the future.
It's true.
We're widening our understanding, not narrow. Widen understanding. We're not covering up that.
We're not covering up as a monkey star. Close our eyes, close our ears, and close our mouth.
It's the Dokki Masters, Dokki practice. We're fearless. We're going to look to that.
And that's called the Implei-Knoat. Then cause and conditions.
Conditions are inevitable. It's true. Extranity, everything is a cause and a contact inevitable.
And invert everything. Harpiness brings happiness. Invert the looking.
Sadness brings sadness. Anger brings anger. And that we know. Emotional level, we know.
It's not just that Buddha said, master said. It's everything is corresponding. It's early.
Even it is illusion. Even it is unborn. Even it is all that great emptiness.
But reality level, everything is cooperating relating that.
And therefore I have courage and commitment to determine that I'm going to make something beautiful
.
Good things. That will reflect good things to me now. And all of them are official.
And they're going to reflect to my friend and family and all the beings.
They're going to do something. They can't have the courage and the detriment.
Knowing the secondary system of the cause and effort system. That system. That system.
Then in samsara, next thing, in samsara has so many trouble. That's called samsara.
Therefore, with that understanding, we have to be patient. We have to be courage.
Courage, ambition and acceptance. We have to accept the situation.
Passion, we do every best to avoid that. When it comes, we have to accept.
There's no way we can avoid anything. It comes. It happens. It's happening. It will happen.
Right. It will happen. Therefore, courage and acceptance and patience and understanding is knowing
the meaning of the samsara.
Samsara, with that increasing compassion, increasing love, increasing joy and opportunity, well, we
are here in a nice time of the window of the nice time.
Why we spoil? Why we spoil? We have to be well, we are good.
And great master what? Great master, Pata Mahasadhi said, one of his teachers, Tungab Jata, he said
, the fire is around.
Everywhere, fire is around. Around, there's no way we can avoid. Avoid. It's true.
Everywhere is that. There's nothing that is this part of the samsara. However, there's the midst of
the skylight, sunshine, sunshining.
Why we spoil that? We should be. Enjoy that sunshine. Do something good.
Happy, like happy, like happy others. Celebrate that. Enjoy that. That is the work of the practice.
And then with that, what is the next one? In the teaching of his own visual teaching.
By thinking that may my mind turn to dharma. May my mind turn to dharma.
That means dharma is not subject, dharma is not object, but dharma is our mind. Our mind.
We have to mingle to dharma, to our heart. Dharma is not the symbol to show, dharma is not the
title to show.
Dharma is not just a kind of regular things. Dharma is to the mind, dharma mingle with oneness.
We and dharma, if we want to become one, then that's known as practice, great practice.
For those reasons, what we challenge at the beginning of the phrase, look, choose your doors.
Chalamna doors, not trovat, trination, that phrase. My mind turns to dharma, become oneness.
That means when our mind turns to dharma, what will be happening? More happy, more joy, more
peaceful, more calm,
more appreciative, soft heart, tender heart, heart, and full heart. That is really more happy, more
content.
That is really known as dharma, dharma. In respect, we have all the beautiful qualities of the samb
okaya,
of the, you see, is arising, coming out, not covered by all those emotional packages that have been
covered for so many lifetimes.
Now let's be enlightening. We're sharing that, we're sharing and coming, the real nuts coming out.
That is really the practice. Mind turns to dharma, something subtle, humble, performed, more
satisfying, more joy.
With that, then refuge, confidence, with Buddha dharma sambokaya, with the devotees, compassion,
love and kindness,
with all sentry, with the full wellness, and offering, sharing, all those, five steps of those,
those, in devotion.
All that is basic, our beautiful things, qualities of that.
With that thought, then, let me practice it, zouki. With that, then practice zouki.
And zouki practice is what? And then the great master said at the beginning of time, take the time,
time, we all have this nature, what a nature. You see, it's not, it's owned by the selected groups.
This master, Master Muharrami said, everyone has this, and everyone has not just have that,
everyone has equal.
Whether you're fully enlightened, whether we are deluded sentient beings, deluded sentient beings.
We all have the same nature without any disconnection. This nuxini is residing right in our heart
center.
That Muharrami said so many times in the quotation, he told quotation from the zouki teachings,
teachings of all Tantras and Mahayoga, Anayoga, and as well as other, those renowned Tantras.
Here in Garbha and Gohya Samadhi, he told all those from quotation, that every once in one voice,
we all have this nature.
Nature is equal to everyone, is residing in the heart center. And how is residing that nature?
In the teachings, that's what he said, residing in the heart center with the clarity, with the
emptiness, openness,
openness, emptiness, clarity, that nature is residing all the time, right in our heart center.
And then in Gohya and Garbha, within the heart center, there are chakras, earth chakra, within the
chakras.
Within the chakra, there is the natural states.
And then known as then, the ordinary, youthful, rest-body, which is enshilled by the dualities, but
is residing full-growing, call it, full potential, full-growing, call it,
that's like nuclear enlightened scholars, residing light. And it has the openness, that means
infinite. It is infinite.
It's not can be measured. It's infinite. It's clarity, clarity of the five wisdom.
And five wisdom is not just the wisdom. Wisdom is what we think and tell it, but it's compassion.
It's loving kindness.
Compassion, wisdom, ability that all reside in the form of light, the color, five colors, white,
yellow, red, blue, green,
that which resides in indestructible nature within our natural states.
That is what we are moving towards, from light to light, from light to light. That is not the
moving towards.
That nature is residing right inside the center.
That introduced, from what we introduced to us, that is right in our heart center.
And it stays with the three qualities as according to the Zokhi level. It stays the quality of the
infinite,
it stays the quality of the energy, it stays the quality of the manifestations,
known as the old, inner, basic three wisdom of the kayaks.
Dharmakaya, Sambokaya, Narmakaya, that potential, that quality, full existing, right with that yuk
si quality.
It's right. And that which is, then more will talk, that is not compounded.
Compounded because it's old inner quality is continued until now. It will continue in the future.
It is not compounded. Every compounded it will subject to change.
Then it is not going to move. It is uncomported.
It is great permanent, in a way.
In the teaching said, it is permanent of the great beyond of the permanent and impermanent.
The great permanent, which is beyond of the permanent, impermanent states.
And this nature states. It is to that being Dharmakaya, Sambokaya, Narmakaya is right with us.
To behold that, then I vote. To behold this qualities,
then I also vote some instructions of from the great master that I received.
And I learned from others. And then to just look to your nature, look to your mind.
The looker itself is a consultant. That's what I want to say, a consultant.
The moment you look, you reach to the speechless status.
There's nothing to find. When you think I'm going to look by my mind, to my mind, by me.
When you think of that, that is a consultant. That is mine.
But beyond that, we can't explain anything.
Reach to the open states.
That is, we are beholding the Dharmakaya call letter of the nuxi.
That is Dharmakaya call letter of nuxi. And that is known as emptiness, the great emptiness.
The great emptiness which is not blank emptiness.
It's not blank emptiness. It's great emptiness.
It's fullness. It's freedom. It's infinite.
It's Dharmakaya, the basic call of the inherent body or inherent that you behold.
Now you behold. That is will. That is will.
This is what I also used and read quite extensively as other great teachings,
teachings from the home I received.
And used as Garabdorti's technique. The introducing pointed out any nature as it is.
That is what it is.
When you got that introduced, when you discovered, there's nothing to behold.
And the teaching said, nothing to see is the greatest thing, sin.
When you didn't see, that means the conception cannot play the role.
You will reach to the inexpressible call of the nature, realization.
That is, as I said, this is the will. Again I will say, that is known as will.
I have to kill will and with practice of humanity. That is the will.
And will is so important. If we don't have the right will, what is our meditation?
Meditation is applying. What are we applying? Right, not right will.
Then what are we going to get? Result, not right result.
So therefore, right will is so important. Many great masters often use sin.
Say the kingdom will you say it? Say it many times.
So it is a used example. If we mixed up the day post, then it will mix up other days too.
Day post is so important. First step, number one is important.
If we mix up the number one, the rest of numbers goes wrong. That is just logic.
Therefore, once we got the will, that is important.
This will is then known as the ordinary nature of the will.
The sub-lubanistri, unimpeded realization of the Buddha, Samh, and the Buddha.
Realization of the Buddha, Kaptamuni, realization of the Gaurapayama, Samh.
That will. That is realizing.
When we are mingling our mind with that, being in that state,
that is as I said the other day too.
This is known as merging the mind, our mind with the mind of the great masters.
That is what it is, merging that.
It is not just a kind of treatment, a piece of objects coming together.
But we are merging to the infinite state of that realization status.
That is this ordinary nature, ordinary qualities, unimpeded, abstract.
From the beginning, one will recognize that qualities as we inherit it.
It is not something coming from outside.
If we recognize that inheriting our qualities to ourselves,
that is known as in the teaching more and more.
It means you are natural, you discover as it is.
You discover, you connect.
And now, next one. To maintain that.
Then, tai chitot ji, then chitot ji goes up.
Apply to maintain that.
That means you kept coming back to the womb.
Whether it is meditation, whether it is a contract,
whatever experience go with through, go with through.
Coming back with nothing changed, nothing moved, nothing is happening.
It is just a display, display, display, display.
It is nothing is happening.
Nothing went out of the range.
All is within that realm of the moral of the dharmakaya.
The moral of the dharmakaya, what all is, the display of the dharmakaya,
the display of the sambhokaya, nothing went out.
Nothing is wrong, we don't have to panic.
We don't have to worry, we don't have to let all merge back as it can.
Within it is all natural state without bringing any other anti-dharmakaya outside or any means.
Use self-cleaning in a way.
Self-cleaning, sub-liberative.
Sub-liberative, right in there.
That is not as meditation, that is the contract levels.
When we are married, we are dead.
Then, as I said, there is a poor, poor, I mean, you know, you know, those poor ways to abide in.
Those are three immovable levels, which is jokhisa, his own style.
Jokhisa is one of the special states.
So it triggers his own special techniques, those three techniques, immovable body,
immovable of the senses, immovable of the mind, relaxed, abiding in the dharmakaya,
freely, openly, very freshly, energetically and nicely, keeping up that.
When we maintain that status, then those whole movements come.
One after another, those movements come.
I listed that, I went through those.
Those, at least the name, those things, that what the great master said.
It's not something that I'm talking.
But what the great master that I did, I learned, went through those.
All comes.
And that summarize of those, always in the teaching state.
Summarize all those experiences, you know, and there is rough experience and a smooth experience.
Rough experience, smooth embrace.
And that is first of all, as I spoke with you, abiding movement and behold.
And when you're abiding this nature with all those qualities, and there is then experience comes.
And those are known as, to summarize that, rough experience and a smooth experience.
Rough experience is something that feels uncomfortable, uncomfortable.
Whether this land level or the sense level, or with the eye, ear, nose, tongue, whatever that level
, feeling level,
and become kind of sensitive, editable, sensitive, sensitive,
and all these things, some kind of unusual things, sparkly, physical level, mental level,
all those things that really not feel right, feel uncomfortable.
Those are not rough experience.
Where this comes from, apply same thing.
(speaking in foreign language)
Keep the will, let merge, let resolve.
Keep the courage and confidence, devotion.
Use all the compassion, love and kindness, compassion.
And bring up the realization, don't forget the instructions.
Don't forget the teachings.
Don't forget the practices.
Keep, re-stand on that and let it subside.
Let it go, let it dissolve.
Maintain and continue in the course of the worthwhile, as voyage.
Continue on that, it will subside.
Not just subside, but re-stand on the teachings, re-stand on our realization, our understanding.
Strongly and beautiful, deeply.
Those are rough experience.
Smooth experience, experience something appealing, that, that also comes.
Those times in the teachings said, come will come in three categories or more.
Those are known as the experience of the blessings, comfort levels.
An experience of the clarity, kind of brilliant in them.
An experience of the neutral states.
Those are the deva in the Tibetan.
Deva, sara, motobhaj.
And related with that to you.
Something not just always, that more kind of, everything going so nice and beautiful, nice,
environment level.
Inwardly also more kind of feeling senses of the bliss, senses of the clarity.
Something kind of brightness and senses of those neutral states.
Those also comes, those comes.
But not, maybe not necessarily immediately when it's not in the meditation, it will come all that.
But maybe when we have little bit more abiding, this deva will become little stronger, little more
stable, stable.
And then you have become also little more noticeable, more subside.
And then maybe those three experience, the smooth experience also begin to shine.
This is generally experience, in the teachings they are not, again, they are sign of the
realization, sign of the progress.
Progress is a natural, basic, beautiful qualities are shining.
Bring up this, it's coming good.
But however it is, also can be sometimes so drawn, our progress is by this.
We start clinging, we start attached, we are kind of wanting that more.
That means we are trying to track our meditative by the ego, by the desire where we want.
Because our meditative, zuki meditative, free from the ego, free from the grasping.
But if we start grasping, manipulating by grasping in our own happy dependence, then it could turn
into some kind of slow, handless, handless dance.
Otherwise, the bliss itself is the quality of the dap, the sambogai.
Yeah, no, bliss is the quality of the narmakai.
And clarity, that brightness is the quality of the sambogai.
And the neutral is the quality of the darmakai.
It's arising, arising.
That is natural expression called as radiating.
But if we start grasping, clinging, then it can be that.
So there, again, whenever that comes, it comes as the great Master Father, when you say it,
but using instantly, instantly, maintaining in the rupa status, on that rupa status,
and using instantly, instantly, or suddenly, using syllables such as pek, pek.
If you are alone meditating, your own room, room, and then use that pek.
Start shouting, the pek, pek.
One time, we had the teaching, we came with this teaching, long time ago, to go,
and then this, in the pattern was teaching.
So some day, the three word, the three word that point out, that has, can we then give it, so we
give it that.
And then there is this, this, use this pek service.
So then we are meditating, up and on, up and on, up and on, everybody meditating,
and somebody shooting, somebody kind of so suddenly, suddenly,
and finally took over, jumped up, jumped up.
So, this is how we grew together, I think it could be, again, it's not that,
it's really kind of like, it blows up, blow.
But as an individual, when you meditate, and you have this experience,
or you need this rough experience too, to use rough experience, those comes too,
then use this techniques, just immediately kind of shatter away that space,
and relax on the person's step, listen and focus, meditate again, and that will help.
So that's it. So those are the way to practice.
So with practices, and then, that is the way to practice.
Again, start with very beautiful foundation practices,
and then do every, and do the documentation.
As we went through, it's good to do documentation, for 15 minutes, or 5 minutes, 10 minutes,
whatever you can do, do every day, if you didn't do that, practice it, it will be wonderful.
It's beautiful, and then, in the concluding, that, then, delegate the merit, merit,
and that, and, and in the concluding, do all those beautiful dedication prayers,
and then we need to come to the post-meditation.
Then, also, if you can kind of remember this one, this one in the teachings,
you said, "I has joined, every time I have done practices, what I have done,
Karma, rabra, manme, te, yuma, sepa, chor, te, manalo, te kita, nudhi, chun, te, te, te, te, te, te
, te, te, te, te of the Buddha.
And in the honest way, they used to challenge this.
Every session, particularly summer retreat, they need to do this practice of the challenge.
Every time you go out, they challenge them.
And this is the same thing here, here.
This is the same thing here, here and here, in very nice books of His grace.
This is all these phenomena, books of diyala, magy, variety, dream, recollection,
that hallucinatory city of the Gandharva, echoes, reflection of the moon in the water,
bubble, optical illusion, and manifestation, manifestation illusions.
We should know, should know, you should know, all world phenomena should be just these 10 examples
of the illusions.
So this is the post-meditational level, and we try to perceive that.
Or just if we don't think about all those things, just all this dream, all this magic, all this
variety, is truly it is.
It's a magic. It's like a mirage. It's really, exactly.
And as this. It's not just that we have trained that sort of object like that, all this. But our
self, my self is a dreamer.
My self is illusion. My self is mirage. So everything is this status.
And have that attitude a little bit as much as we can.
That is also really the beginning of the dreamy of our practice, too.
We started thinking that, again, it's true. It is mirage. Isn't it?
Really, we start thinking that is a very, very big step of the dreamy of our practices, practices.
And they're dedicated to merit. So that's it. And that is my, in a way, brickstroke.
And now, what do you learn? Now, doki meditation, and look into the nature of the mind.
Relax. Relax. And that's it. And as the God of God is teaching.
So remember that, and thank you, everyone.
Great. Any questions?